0.22 Release Blog Post (#2337)
kestra-io/docs: content/blogs/release-0-22.md

## Feature Highlights

### Plugin Versioning

Managing plugin versions is essential for maintaining stability while enabling innovation in your automation workflows. This release introduces Plugin Versioning capabilities, giving you unprecedented control over your plugin ecosystem.
With the new Plugin Versioning feature, you can now manage multiple versions of plugins simultaneously across your entire environment. This powerful capability allows teams to progressively adopt new features while maintaining critical production workflows.

You can access Plugin Versioning through the new dedicated page under Administration > Instance > Versioned Plugin. Here you'll find an intuitive interface that displays all available versions and prompts to upload and manage plugins.

Plugins are now stored in internal storage and automatically synchronized across all workers, ensuring consistency throughout your environment. For organizations with custom plugins, we've added support for customer-specific artifact registries, allowing you to manage proprietary automation components with the same robust tools used for standard plugins.

> 

Reviewer: Plugin Versioning video

```suggestion

<div class="video-container">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/h-vmMGlTGM8?si=_BoEZRxeVvxpXXnG" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

```

![](SCREENSHOT 1)

![](SCREENSHOT 2)

### Read-Only External Secrets Manager 

Managing secrets securely across your automation environment is critical for maintaining compliance and security standards. Kestra 0.22 introduces External Secret Manager capabilities, enabling seamless integration with your established security infrastructure.

The new read-only mode for external secrets managers allows you to reference secrets that remain managed in your external system. The integration currently supports HashiCorp Vault with path prefix capabilities, enabling you to precisely control which secrets are accessible to your workflows.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<div class="video-container">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/h-vmMGlTGM8?si=_BoEZRxeVvxpXXnG" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

```

    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.log.Log
    message: Execution {{ execution.state }} # Execution RUNNING
  
  - id: fail
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.execution.Fail

finally:
  - id: log 
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.log.Log
    message: Execution {{ execution.state }} # Execution RUNNING

afterExecution:
  - id: log_after
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.log.Log
    message: Execution {{ execution.state }} # Execution FAILED
```
::

### Sharing of Namespace Files and KV Store across namespaces

- https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/issues/5467

NamespaceFiles

```yaml
id: hyena_375528
namespace: dev.ben

tasks:
  - id: hello
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.log.Log
    message: Hello World! 🚀

  - id: ns
    type: io.kestra.plugin.scripts.python.Commands
    namespaceFiles:
      enabled: true
      namespaces:
        - "company"
        - "dev.ben"
    commands:
      - python test.py
```

## User Interface & Experience Improvements

As with each release, there are more UI and UX enhancements:

- Improved Editor contrast in the light mode
- Export topology view to PNG and JPG
- Improvements to flow filters in the UI (Filter flows by text, filter by multiple labels)

> - As part of our continuous improvements to the No Code experience, we're releasing a Beta version of a multi-tab system in the editor. To enable this feature, navigate to Settings > Multi-tab Editor.

Reviewer: I was unable to find this in `develop`. Just want to make sure this is still in progress and not being missed

Author: - I tested export topology to PNG and JPG last week, should be ok
- there is an issue with multi label, I've created a QA issue https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/issues/8016
- No Code multi-tab is not merged yet, but will ultimately available this week (will remove if not the case

Reviewer: This is visible now

<div class="video-container">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/h-vmMGlTGM8?si=_BoEZRxeVvxpXXnG" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

![](SCREENSHOT 1)

![](SCREENSHOT 2)

TBD ADD DOC LINK

> Note: Plugin versioning is currently in beta and may undergo changes in upcoming releases.

### Read-Only External Secrets Manager 

Managing secrets securely across your automation environment is critical for maintaining compliance and security standards. Kestra 0.22 introduces External Secret Manager capabilities, enabling seamless integration with your established security infrastructure.

The new read-only mode for external secrets managers allows you to reference secrets that remain managed in your external system. The integration currently supports HashiCorp Vault with path prefix capabilities, enabling you to precisely control which secrets are accessible to your workflows.

> TO CHECK: WHAT ABOUT GCP, AWS, Azure?

Reviewer 2: The 3 major cloud providers are supported and just need readOnly: true added to the configuration. Need to verify there is no nuance to access a secret, but it was stated nothing should change.

Reviewer: AWS is a bit different. With Read Only off, you have to add the key as a tag, and the secret name is unrelated. However with read only on, the secret name is the key and the only thing it uses beyond namespace tag

You might use `afterExecution` to send notifications or update documentation after a flow completes, regardless of whether it succeeded or failed. Unlike `finally` which runs while the flow is still active, afterExecution ensures these tasks only begin after the entire execution finishes, providing cleaner separation between your core workflow and post-completion tasks.

::collapse{title="Example of `afterExecution` vs `finally`"}
```yaml
id: state_demo
namespace: company.team

tasks:
  - id: run
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.log.Log
    message: Execution {{ execution.state }} # Execution RUNNING
  
  - id: fail
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.execution.Fail

finally:
  - id: log 
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.log.Log
    message: Execution {{ execution.state }} # Execution RUNNING

afterExecution:
  - id: log_after
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.log.Log
    message: Execution {{ execution.state }} # Execution FAILED
```
::

TBD ADD DOC LINK

### Sharing of Namespace Files and KV Store across namespaces

- https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/issues/5467

> Nnamespace files now support a smart fetch mechanism – you can pull files from multiple namespaces in a cascading order, with later namespaces seamlessly overriding files from earlier ones.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Namespace files now support a smart fetch mechanism – you can pull files from multiple namespaces in a cascading order, with later namespaces seamlessly overriding files from earlier ones.
```

TBD ADD DOC LINK

::collapse{title="NamespaceFiles inheritance"}
```yaml
id: namespace_files_inheritance
namespace: company

tasks:
  - id: hello
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.log.Log
    message: Hello World! 🚀

  - id: ns
    type: io.kestra.plugin.scripts.python.Commands
    namespaceFiles:
      enabled: true
      namespaces:
        - "company"
        - "dev.team"
    commands:
      - python test.py  # this file will be pulled from `dev.team` namespace
```
::

For key-value stores, we've introduced inheritance that matches how other Kestra configurations work. KV pairs now automatically flow from parent to child namespaces, giving you more consistency out of the box.

TBD ADD DOC LINK

TBD example

## Other Features and Improvements

- New LDAP integration. It provides streamlined authentication and user management for enterprise environments. NEED DOC LINK https://github.com/kestra-io/docs/pull/2307/files#diff-d8bd8bcd1663d7070204865e13c05aa4a24e6eca8890e48a6c36569c387b50bc

> - New Log Shippers. Including Splunk, AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, Azure Blob. This release also introduce AuditLogs Log Shipper allowing to export records for all activities performed in your Kestra instance by users and service accounts. https://github.com/kestra-io/docs/pull/2307/files#diff-70a3bf31ac506aa1a42355b8340a7af81a1ef3400b2e70fcb07af76622d50b5c

Reviewer 2: OpenSearch also new this release I believe.

- [New Python package](https://github.com/kestra-io/libs/pull/16) enables native reading of ION files for improved Python integration. https://github.com/kestra-io/docs/pull/2307/files#diff-a07a10ebe006ff8445184afa3467e3e0504bae68cceb4b6ec74e8e1a58838b50
- Improvements Ansible outputs integration allows seamless connection between Ansible playbooks and Kestra workflows. You can find new blueprints
- Website performance dramatically improved following Nuxt 2 to 3 migration, including a redesigned plugin page for better discoverability.
- Comprehensive bug fixes for dynamic properties ensure more reliable and predictable behavior across workflows.
- Expanded context variables now include [taskrun and execution states accessible via Pebble](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/issues/7155), enabling more powerful dynamic workflows. NEED DOC

## User Interface & Experience Improvements

As with each release, there are more UI and UX enhancements:

- Global View for Secrets and KV Store TBD (highlights?)
- Improved Editor contrast in the light mode.

> - Add button to export the topology view to PNG or JPG.

Reviewer 2: The copy to clipboard expressions for kv and secrets is pretty cool and maybe on par to mention if we are mentioning topology export.

The new read-only mode for external secrets managers allows you to reference secrets that remain managed in your external system.

The UI clearly distinguishes externally managed secrets with a lock icon, providing visual confirmation of their read-only status. These secrets cannot be edited, created, or deleted through Kestra, ensuring your security policies remain enforced at the source.

<div class="video-container">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uxFyE1nsMlU?si=X3nUxXwfAu4jCElc" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

TBD ADD DOC LINK - https://github.com/kestra-io/docs/pull/2307/files#diff-dcab1a99dbebda5decad563848369189d76c2f11ad4994d032472fd6091c239d

![read only secret manager](/blogs/release-0-22/read-only-secret-manager.png)

![read only secret manager 2](/blogs/release-0-22/read-only-secret-manager-2.png)

### `afterExecution` property

> This release introduce a new flow property: `afterExecution`. This allows to run any set of tasks **after** the execution of the flow. It differs from the `finally` property that run tasks at the end of the flow while the execution is still in `RUNNING` state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release introduces a new flow property: `afterExecution`. This allows you to run any set of tasks **after** the execution of the flow. It differs from the `finally` property that runs tasks at the end of the flow while the execution is still in `RUNNING` state.
```

> You might use `afterExecution` to send notifications or update documentation after a flow completes, regardless of whether it succeeded or failed. Unlike `finally` which runs while the flow is still active, afterExecution ensures these tasks only begin after the entire execution finishes, providing cleaner separation between your core workflow and post-completion tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might use `afterExecution` to send notifications or update documentation after a flow completes, regardless of whether it succeeded or failed. Unlike `finally` which runs while the flow is still active, `afterExecution` ensures these tasks only begin after the entire execution finishes, providing cleaner separation between your core workflow and post-completion tasks.
```

Key features include:
- Automatic user synchronization with LDAP directories
- Group-based access control mapping
- Support for multiple LDAP servers
- Configurable attribute mapping for user profiles

Once LDAP is set up, users logging into Kestra for the first time will have their credentials verified against the LDAP directory. Users belonging to groups defined in the directory will see those groups created in Kestra, or if the groups already exist, users will be automatically added to them.

TBD ADD DOC LINK - https://github.com/kestra-io/docs/pull/2307/files#diff-d8bd8bcd1663d7070204865e13c05aa4a24e6eca8890e48a6c36569c387b50bc

![ldap](/blogs/release-0-22/ldap.png)

### Enhanced Log Shippers

This release significantly expands Kestra's LogShipper capabilities introduced in the previous release with new integrations and features:

- **New Log Shipper Integrations**:
  - Splunk
  - AWS S3
  - Google Cloud Storage
  - Azure Blob Storage

TBD LINK TO DOC - https://github.com/kestra-io/docs/pull/2307/files#diff-70a3bf31ac506aa1a42355b8340a7af81a1ef3400b2e70fcb07af76622d50b5c

> - **AuditLogs Log Shipper**: you can now captures and exports comprehensive activity records for all user and service account actions within your Kestra instance. This enables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **AuditLogs Log Shipper**: you can now capture and export comprehensive activity records for all user and service account actions within your Kestra instance. This enables:
```

  - Complete audit trail of system activities
  - Enhanced security monitoring
  - Compliance reporting capabilities

TBD ADD DOC LINK

### Global View for Secrets and KV Store

This release introduces new global views for managing secrets and key-value pairs across your entire Kestra instance:

- **Key-Value Store Overview:** We've added a dedicated tab to the main navigation that shows all key-value pairs throughout your instance. This hub lets you track and adjust KV pairs across namespaces without switching contexts. You can check values, set expiration times, and sort your data efficiently in one location.

> - **Secrets Overview:** Enterprise Edition users gain access to a new tabs on the left menu for managing secret.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Secrets Overview:** Enterprise Edition users gain access to a new tabs on the left menu for managing secrets.
```

    payload: |
      {
        "text": "Oh no, {{flow.namespace}}.{{flow.id}} failed!!!"
      }
```
::

The `afterExecution` differs from the `finally` property because:
1. `finally` runs tasks at the end of the flow while the execution is still in a `RUNNING` state
2. `afterExecution` runs tasks after the Execution finishes in a terminal state like `SUCCESS` or `FAILED`.

You might use `afterExecution` to send custom notifications after a flow completes, regardless of whether it succeeded or failed. Unlike `finally`, which runs while the execution is still in progress, `afterExecution` ensures these tasks only begin after the entire execution finishes.

<div class="video-container">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9GoJhOPUZH8?si=oT89y6uhpDtGrcbl" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

TBD BELOW - LINK TO DOC
For detailed instructions on how to configure and use this feature, check out our [comprehensive documentation on afterExecution]().

### Sharing Namespace Files

> Namespace files can now be shared and reused simply by referencing a given `namespace` directly in your script task. If you define multiple namespaces, Kestra will fetch the corresponding namespace files in the same order the namespaces are listed. If you have the same file(s) defined in multiple namespaces, the later namespaces will override files from earlier ones.

Reviewer 3: `If you define multiple namespaces, Kestra will fetch the corresponding namespace files in the same order the namespaces are listed. If you have the same file(s) defined in multiple namespaces, the later namespaces will override files from earlier ones.`

The two statements here look contradictory to me. The first one implies that the value will be taken from the starting namespaces in the list, while the second statement implies the value will be taken from the end of the list.

Reviewer 2: What it means is that it checks your list in a descending order with priority given to later listed namespaces. Sort of first in, first out.

  - id: get_kv_from_another_namespace
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.log.Log
    message: "{{ kv('test_value', namespace='test') }}"
```
::

### LDAP Integration

Enterprise environments require robust authentication and user management capabilities. Kestra 0.22 introduces LDAP integration to synchronize users, groups and authentication credentials from your existing LDAP directory.

Key features include:
- Automatic users and credentials sync from existing LDAP directories
- Group mapping for simplified RBAC
- Support for multiple LDAP servers
- Configurable attribute mapping for user profiles.

Once LDAP integration is set up, users logging into Kestra for the first time will have their credentials verified against the LDAP directory. Users belonging to groups defined in the directory will see those groups created in Kestra, or if a given group already exists in Kestra, LDAP users will be automatically added to it after login.

For detailed information on setting up and configuring LDAP in Kestra, check our [LDAP documentation](/docs/enterprise/auth/sso/ldap).

![ldap](/blogs/release-0-22/ldap.png)

### New Log Shipper plugins

> This release adds a new `AuditLogShipper` and new log exporters plugins to the Enterprise Edition, including:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This release adds a new `AuditLogShipper` and new log exporter plugins to the Enterprise Edition, including:
```

For detailed information on setting up and configuring log shippers, check the [Log Shipper documentation](https://kestra.io/docs/enterprise/governance/logshipper).

### Unified Secrets and KV Store UI

This release introduces new global views for managing secrets and key-value pairs across your entire Kestra instance:

- **KV Store UI:** We've added a dedicated page listing all key-value pairs across all namespaces.
- **Secrets UI:** Enterprise Edition users gain a unified view of all Secrets existing in your instance across all namespaces, simplifying governance and bringing visibility about which secrets exist and within which namespaces they are managed.

## Other Features and Improvements

- We've revamped our **Queues** for performance and reliability. You can expect the `queues` database table to take up less space and perform better
- [DevContainer support](docs/01.getting-started/03.contributing.md) simplifies development setup for contributors with ready-to-use environments

> - [New Python package](https://github.com/kestra-io/libs/pull/16) allow you to read Kestra's native ION files into Pandas or Polars dataframes. Read more in our [Python How-to guide](/docs/how-to-guides/python)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [New Python package](https://github.com/kestra-io/libs/pull/16) allows you to read Kestra's native ION files into Pandas or Polars dataframes. Read more in our [Python How-to guide](/docs/how-to-guides/python)
```

> - Improved Ansible integration with the ability to [capture outputs from individual steps](https://github.com/kestra-io/plugin-ansible/pull/35),of your Ansible playbooks

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Improved Ansible integration with the ability to [capture outputs from individual steps](https://github.com/kestra-io/plugin-ansible/pull/35) of your Ansible playbooks
```

- Multiple bug fixes for dynamic properties ensure more reliable and predictable behavior across workflows
- Website performance dramatically improved following Nuxt 2 to 3 migration, including a redesigned plugin page for easier navigation of plugin properties and outputs

> - Expanded context variables now include [taskrun and execution states accessible via Pebble](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/issues/7155). The `{{tasks.your_task_id.state }}` context returns a task run's state while the `{{execution.state}}` allows to retrieve the flow execution state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Expanded context variables now include [taskrun and execution states accessible via Pebble](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/issues/7155). The `{{ tasks.your_task_id.state }}` context returns a task run's state while the `{{ execution.state }}` allows to retrieve the flow execution state.
```

Reviewer 4: looks strange to add spaces in simple inline text, even in flows we now avoid extra spaces + no need to be that rigid about this, in the end both work :)

|  Plugin Versioning       | Manage multiple versions of plugins simultaneously across your environment | Enterprise Edition |
| Read-Only Secrets Backends         | Read secrets from an external secret manager backend without the ability to add or modify credentials from Kestra | Enterprise Edition |
| New flow property       | Define tasks to run after the execution is finished (e.g. alerts) using the `afterExecution` property | All Edition |
| Cross-Namespace File Sharing      | Use code and KV pairs from other namespaces in your tasks thanks to improved inheritance and Namespace Files sharing | All Edition |
| LDAP Sync         | Securely fetch users and credentials from an existing LDAP directory to simplify authentication and user management in enterprise environments | Enterprise Edition |
| Log Shipper plugins    | New log exporters for Splunk, AWS S3, Google Cloud and Azure Blob Storage, and a new log shipper plugin for Audit Logs | Enterprise Edition |
| Secrets and KV Store UI | Unified interface for managing secrets and key-value pairs across namespaces | All Edition |

Check the video below for a quick overview of all enhancements.

<div class="video-container">

>     <iframe src="LINK_TBD" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pLVpimXVJ8Y?si=Rx2Zx0UyZ9Vd5I-K" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

You can access that feature from the new dedicated UI page under Administration → Instance → Versioned Plugin, showing all available versions and making it easy to gradually upgrade your plugins when new versions are available.

To enable that capability, Kestra now stores plugins in internal storage and automatically synchronizes them across all workers, ensuring consistency throughout your environment. For organizations relying on custom plugins, we've added support for custom artifact registries.

<div class="video-container">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/h-vmMGlTGM8?si=_BoEZRxeVvxpXXnG" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

TBD BELOW - LINK TO DOC https://github.com/kestra-io/docs/pull/2307/files#diff-3592cdca9708a236e1c992fd8495d6ad8af8204e4bafb7299a0503e37bebbe35

> For detailed instructions on how to use and configure plugin versioning, check out our [comprehensive documentation on Plugin Versioning]().

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For detailed instructions on how to use and configure plugin versioning, check out our [comprehensive documentation on Plugin Versioning](../docs/enterprise/instance/versioned-plugins).
```

The read-only mode for secrets managers allows you to reference secrets entirely managed in an external system. This feature is particularly useful for customers with centralized secrets management in place who prefer to avoid managing secrets from the Kestra UI, e.g., for compliance reasons.

The UI clearly distinguishes externally managed secrets with a lock icon, providing visual confirmation of their read-only status. These secrets cannot be edited, created, or deleted through Kestra, ensuring your security policies remain enforced at the source.

<div class="video-container">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uxFyE1nsMlU?si=X3nUxXwfAu4jCElc" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

TBD BELOW - LINK TO DOC https://github.com/kestra-io/docs/pull/2307/files#diff-dcab1a99dbebda5decad563848369189d76c2f11ad4994d032472fd6091c239d

> For detailed instructions on how to configure and use this feature, visit the [Read-Only Secrets Backends documentation]().

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For detailed instructions on how to configure and use this feature, visit the [Read-Only Secrets Backends documentation](../docs/enterprise/governance/read-only-secrets).
```

    runIf: "{{execution.state == 'FAILED'}}"
    type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.slack.SlackIncomingWebhook
    url: https://hooks.slack.com/services/xxxxx
    payload: |
      {
        "text": "Oh no, {{flow.namespace}}.{{flow.id}} failed!!!"
      }
```
::

The `afterExecution` differs from the `finally` property because:
1. `finally` runs tasks at the end of the flow while the execution is still in a `RUNNING` state
2. `afterExecution` runs tasks after the Execution finishes in a terminal state like `SUCCESS` or `FAILED`.

You might use `afterExecution` to send custom notifications after a flow completes, regardless of whether it succeeded or failed. Unlike `finally`, which runs while the execution is still in progress, `afterExecution` ensures these tasks only begin after the entire execution finishes.

<div class="video-container">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7PCOvxOl9LI?si=opJjV_Drs-dsjy_L" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

TBD BELOW - LINK TO DOC

> For detailed instructions on how to configure and use this feature, check out our [comprehensive documentation on afterExecution]().

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For detailed instructions on how to configure and use this feature, check out our [comprehensive documentation on afterExecution](../docs/workflow-components/afterexecution).
```

- Multiple bug fixes for dynamic properties ensure more reliable and predictable behavior across workflows
- Expanded context variables now include [taskrun and execution states accessible via Pebble](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/issues/7155). The `{{tasks.your_task_id.state }}` context returns a task run's state while the `{{execution.state}}` allows to retrieve the flow execution state.

## UI Improvements

Here are UI enhancements worth noting:
- Improved Editor contrast in light mode
- New export functionality for topology views, allowing you to save workflow diagrams as PNG or JPG files for documentation or sharing with stakeholders
- Added one-click copy functionality for Pebble expressions (e.g., `{{kv('my_value')}}`) in KV Store and Secret tables for easier reference
- Improvements to flow filters in the UI (Filter flows by text, filter by multiple labels)
- As part of our continuous improvements to the No-Code Editor, we're releasing a Beta version of a Multi-Panel Editor. To enable this Beta feature, navigate to `Settings` and toggle the `Multi Panel Editor` on.

> Our website performance has also significantly improved following Nuxt 2 to 3 migration, including a redesigned plugin page for easier navigation of plugin properties and outputs

Reviewer: I don't think the plugin docs redesign is clear enough

Reviewer 2: Could be cool to add a gif to the blog to show the improved navigation.

Reviewer: I like that idea

---

> title: Kestra 0.22 introduces Plugin Versioning, External Secrets, and Namespace Sharing

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
title: Kestra 0.22 introduces support for LDAP, Plugin Versioning, Read-Only Secrets Backends and Cross-Namespace File Sharing 
```

> description: Kestra 0.22 brings powerful new features including Plugin Versioning, External Secrets, and enhanced namespace sharing capabilities. This release focuses on enterprise-grade management features while improving developer experience with new plugins and Pebble functions.

Reviewer 4: sooo much repetition 😭 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c9291f96-88ed-4ded-9817-126e20647833)
 can you revise @Ben8t? maybe list features only in description but cut from the intro i.e. in intro only point to the table?

Author: Oh didn't check the render; thought the meta description is not showing. definitely moving away the second paragraph

date: 2025-04-01T17:00:00
category: News & Products Updates
author:
  name: Benoit Pimpaud
  image: bpimpaud
image: /blogs/release-0-22.jpg
---

Kestra 0.22 introduces Plugin Versioning, External Secrets Manager, afterExecution property, Namespace Files and KV Store sharing, LDAP Integration, Enhanced Log Shippers, and Global View for Secrets and KV Store. This release focuses on enterprise-grade management features while improving developer experience with new plugins and Pebble functions.

The table below highlights the key features of this release.

| Feature                                   | Description                                                                | Edition |
|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------| --- |
|  Plugin Versioning       | Manage multiple versions of plugins simultaneously across your environment | Enterprise Edition |

> | Read-Only External Secrets Manager         | Connect to external secret management systems to access credentials without duplicating sensitive data | Enterprise Edition |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Read-Only Secrets Backends         | Read secrets from an external secret manager backend without the ability to add or modify credentials from Kestra | Enterprise Edition |
```
> "Connect to external secret management systems to access credentials without duplicating sensitive data" 

this feature already exists, what we add are read-only backends

| `afterExecution` property       | Execute tasks after a flow completes, regardless of its status | All Edition |

> | Sharing of Namespace Files and KV Store across namespaces       | Share files and key-value pairs between namespaces for better resource management | All Edition |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Cross-Namespace File Sharing      | Use code and KV pairs from other namespaces in your tasks thanks to improved inheritance and Namespace Files sharing | All Edition |
```

| LDAP Integration         | Streamlined authentication and user management for enterprise environments | Enterprise Edition |

> | Enhanced Log Shippers    | New integrations including Splunk, AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, Azure Blob, and exporting AuditLogs | Enterprise Edition |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Log Shipper plugins    | New log exporters for Splunk, AWS S3, Google Cloud and Azure Blob Storage, and a new log shipper plugin for Audit Logs | Enterprise Edition |
```

> | Global View for Secrets and KV Store | Unified interface for managing secrets and key-value pairs across namespaces | All Edition |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Secrets and KV Store UI | Unified interface for managing secrets and key-value pairs across namespaces | All Edition |
```

> Check the video below for a quick overview of the new features.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Check the video below for a quick overview of all enhancements.
```

<div class="video-container">
    <iframe src="LINK_TBD" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---

Let's dive into these highlights and other enhancements in more detail.

## Feature Highlights

### Plugin Versioning

> Managing plugin versions is essential for maintaining stability while enabling innovation in your automation workflows. This release introduces Plugin Versioning capabilities, giving you unprecedented control over your plugin ecosystem.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Managing plugin versions is critical for the stability of your orchestration platform. That's why we are excited to introduce Plugin Versioning.
```
seemed too long

> With the new Plugin Versioning feature, you can now manage multiple versions of plugins simultaneously across your entire environment. This powerful capability allows teams to progressively adopt new features while maintaining critical production workflows.
> 
> You can access Plugin Versioning through the new dedicated page under Administration > Instance > Versioned Plugin. Here you'll find an intuitive interface that displays all available versions and prompts to upload and manage plugins.
> 
> Plugins are now stored in internal storage and automatically synchronized across all workers, ensuring consistency throughout your environment. For organizations with custom plugins, we've added support for customer-specific artifact registries, allowing you to manage proprietary automation components with the same robust tools used for standard plugins.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Versioned Plugins allow you to simultaneously use multiple versions of plugins across your environment. This powerful capability allows teams to progressively adopt new features while pinning the plugin version for critical production workflows.

You can access that feature from the new dedicated UI page under Administration → Instance → Versioned Plugin, showing all available versions and making it easy to gradually upgrade your plugins when new versions are available.

To enable that capability, Kestra now stores plugins in internal storage and automatically synchronizes them across all workers, ensuring consistency throughout your environment. For organizations relying on custom plugins, we've added support for custom artifact registries.
```

<div class="video-container">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/h-vmMGlTGM8?si=_BoEZRxeVvxpXXnG" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

TBD BELOW - LINK TO DOC https://github.com/kestra-io/docs/pull/2307/files#diff-3592cdca9708a236e1c992fd8495d6ad8af8204e4bafb7299a0503e37bebbe35
For detailed instructions on how to use and configure plugin versioning, check out our [comprehensive documentation on Plugin Versioning]().

> > Note: Plugin versioning is currently in beta and may undergo changes in upcoming releases.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
::alert{type="warning"}
Plugin versioning is currently in Beta and may change in upcoming releases.
::
```

### Read-Only External Secrets Manager 

> Managing secrets securely across your automation environment is critical for maintaining compliance and security standards. Kestra 0.22 introduces External Secret Manager capabilities, enabling seamless integration with your established security infrastructure.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Kestra 0.22 introduces Read-Only Secret backends, allowing you to use your existing secrets manager in a read-only mode without the ability to add or modify secrets in Kestra.
```

> The new read-only mode for external secrets managers allows you to reference secrets that remain managed in your external system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The read-only mode for secrets managers allows you to reference secrets entirely managed in an external system. This feature is particularly useful for customers who already have centralized secrets management in place and don't need the capability of managing secrets from the Kestra UI.
```

> The UI clearly distinguishes externally managed secrets with a lock icon, providing visual confirmation of their read-only status. These secrets cannot be edited, created, or deleted through Kestra, ensuring your security policies remain enforced at the source.

Reviewer 4: this section is 🥇 well done

Plugin versioning is currently in Beta and may change in upcoming releases.
::

### Read-Only External Secrets Manager 

Kestra 0.22 introduces Read-Only Secret backends, allowing you to use your existing secrets manager in a read-only mode without the ability to add or modify secrets in Kestra.

The new read-only mode for external secrets managers allows you to reference secrets that remain managed in your external system.

The UI clearly distinguishes externally managed secrets with a lock icon, providing visual confirmation of their read-only status. These secrets cannot be edited, created, or deleted through Kestra, ensuring your security policies remain enforced at the source.

<div class="video-container">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uxFyE1nsMlU?si=X3nUxXwfAu4jCElc" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

TBD BELOW - LINK TO DOC https://github.com/kestra-io/docs/pull/2307/files#diff-dcab1a99dbebda5decad563848369189d76c2f11ad4994d032472fd6091c239d

> For detailed instructions on how to configure and use this feature, check out our [comprehensive documentation on External Secrets Manager]().

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For detailed instructions on how to configure and use this feature, visit the [Read-Only Secrets Backends documentation]().
```

![read only secret manager](/blogs/release-0-22/read-only-secret-manager.png)

![read only secret manager 2](/blogs/release-0-22/read-only-secret-manager-2.png)

> ### `afterExecution` property

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### New flow level property called `afterExecution`
```

> This release introduces a new flow property: `afterExecution`. This allows you to run any set of tasks **after** the execution of the flow. It differs from the `finally` property that runs tasks at the end of the flow while the execution is still in `RUNNING` state.
> 
> You might use `afterExecution` to send notifications or update documentation after a flow completes, regardless of whether it succeeded or failed. Unlike `finally` which runs while the flow is still active, `afterExecution` ensures these tasks only begin after the entire execution finishes, providing cleaner separation between your core workflow and post-completion tasks.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This release introduces a new flow property called `afterExecution`, allowing you to run tasks **after** the execution of the flow e.g. to send different alerts depending on some condition. For instance, you can leverage this new property in combination with the `runIf` task property to send a different Slack message for successful and failed Executions — expand the example below to see it in action.

::collapse{title="Example Flow using the new property"}
```yaml
id: alerts_demo
namespace: company.team

tasks:
  - id: hello
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.log.Log
    message: Hello World!
  
  - id: fail
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.execution.Fail

afterExecution:
  - id: onSuccess
    runIf: "{{execution.state == 'SUCCESS'}}"
    type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.slack.SlackIncomingWebhook
    url: https://hooks.slack.com/services/xxxxx
    payload: |
      {
        "text": "{{flow.namespace}}.{{flow.id}} finished successfully!"
      }    

  - id: onFailure
    runIf: "{{execution.state == 'FAILED'}}"
    type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.slack.SlackIncomingWebhook
    url: https://hooks.slack.com/services/xxxxx
    payload: |
      {
        "text": "Oh no, {{flow.namespace}}.{{flow.id}} failed!!!"
      }    
```
::

The `afterExecution` differs from the `finally` property because: 
1. `finally` runs tasks at the end of the flow while the execution is still in a `RUNNING` state
2. `afterExecution` runs tasks after the Execution finishes in a terminal state like `SUCCESS` or `FAILED`.

You might use `afterExecution` to send custom notifications after a flow completes, regardless of whether it succeeded or failed. Unlike `finally`, which runs while the execution is still in progress, `afterExecution` ensures these tasks only begin after the entire execution finishes.
```
